...and then Rishi Sunak comes out and says
'I will pledge to bring down inflation' and
I was thinking this guy this guy that is like
me saying (we filmed this in January) that's
me saying I'll pledge in the next 6 months to
bring the temperature up by at least 10 degrees
yeah go on what do you wanna ask?
I mean you eventouched on it just now but
you've talked about how important accountability is
is and thatpeople should be you know held accountable
for their predictions, don't know if you caught it in the
news today but Rishi Sunak made some predictions...
okay yeah this is good I'm glad you asked me this
*is this not what you wanted?* all right sothis is
funny right so today Rishi Sunak has come out
with his five big pledges is it five five pledges?
um and pledge number one maybe is um that he's
gonna cut in first in in half and it is funny right
because me and you (me and Sim) the guy that
does the videos, me and Sim was talking
earlier today and about predictions and I said
inflation will come down and we know inflation
will come down because every month you have
inflation right and then the number they show you
on the news is the annual inflation so it's the
last 12 months right and the big inflation months
last year were I think like April May maybe March
April May big big inflation months right so we
know that in six months time those massive months
will drop out of the data so we know with almost
certainty that inflation is going to come
down really quickly and I was saying like
if we wanted to be cheeky we could go on
the channel and we could make a prediction
inflation will come down even though really
it's obvious that it will come down even
though it's definite it will come down and then
Rishi Sunak comes out and says I will pledge
to bring down inflation and I was thinking
this guy this guy that is like me sayingright
we're filming this in January that's me
saying I'll pledge in the next six months to
bring the temperature up by at least 10
degrees you know this you know like
we know with almost certainty already this
thing will happen right and he's saying
Me, Rishi Sunak I'm gonna do this,
this guy's a joke right thisguy's such a joker
but I mean what can you sayman?
cheers Rishi Sunak, its a good strategy
you know he will succeedat least in
that one part of his five point policy
because any [*] could succeed in the thingthat
was going to happen anyway um but well done
and I think what we should add inflationcoming
down does not mean prices coming down
inflation is the rate of increase in prices so it
just means that prices are going to stop going up
as fast as they were so you know you don't
makethings better he said what he's saying is
I'm gonna make the rate at which your life is getting
worse a bit slower so well done billionaire Rishi Sunak
I'm sure the country will be proud of your work
*you use the word joke I think you're right but
I know part of me thinks the jokes on us because
it will work, people will be like yeah he said it
and it's happened so* personally I don't think
that Rishi Sunak is very popular I don't think
he will be very popular um and I think this is...
I'man economist not politician right, but first of all
I think the guy um does not come across as very
human or very understanding of ordinary people
did you see the clip the other day of him in the soup
kitchen asking a homeless man if he's thinking
about getting into Finance? *it's beyond belief!*
yeah um yeah so I think he's not very personally
likable I think he's quite out of touch you seethe
clip when he was a kid when he was saying you
know "I've got friends who are upper class, friendswho
are middle class, friends who are working class...
well not working class!" did you see that one?
this isa very wealthy guy from very wealthy family
um I never met him he could be personally
a very nice guy, we don't know, he might be
um but beyond his personal failings I think
the main reason why Rishi Sunak will not
be popular is because the economy the
economic situation is going to get worse
it's going to get worse and like it's bad right
what is happening is bad and it's going to get
worse and the reason I know that is because
as I've been speaking about from the beginning
in the last few years there's been a massive
transfer of cash from the government to the rich
through which are still sitting on that money
they will use that money to buy their assets
from the middle class to drive up things like
house prices to the drive up things like stock
prices which makes the rich richer and makes
it harder for middle class people to move up
so we know the middle class will shrink we know
life will continue to become more unaffordable for
ordinary people we know these things will happen
and we know there's no mechanism to reverse that
because once the rich get richer they buy more
assets from the middle class middle class gets
poorer which means that the rate of inequality
increasing increases more because the middle
class has a less assets and the rich have more
assets so we know things will get worse and
ultimately at the end of the day that the
speed at which life is getting worse now
people are not going to accept it of course
people are not going to accept that and I
wouldn't be surprised this is not expected in the
betting market I wouldn't be surprised if RishiSunak
is replaced before the next election because
he's unpopular I don't think it will get bought
I don't think it will be bought I think that I
think that um it will not be popular I think
the conservatives will lose the next electionbut
as I've spoken about many times on the channel
my big fear is not that the conservatives win the
next election although I hope that they don't
it's that labour wins the next election they don't
do anything about wealth inequality things continue
to get worse and then people start feeling
like we need something more extreme you know
we need something more extreme and then we you
know what is happening now in terms of the rapid
decrease in living standards the rapid increase
inequality very similar to the 1920s and 1930s
you know look what happened then, Europe
fell into fascism we had the second world war
we had the Holocaust, we had the Nazis, you know
I'mnot saying, look, I'm not saying these things will
happen again you know and I pray to God that
these things do not happen again but if you
people will vote for something sensible 3 times,
4 times, 5 times, maybe 6 times and ifevery
single time their life gets worse and worseand
worse eventually they'll vote for somethinginsane
and you can understand why theywould do
that right so you know I take a step back
from Rishi Sunak and I look at the global picture
and I think this is important people understand
that what is happening in the UK is not happening
just in the UK that it is true that the UK has had
a particular dive in the last like five six
years living standards have fallen a lot but
living standards are falling everywhere forthe
average person in the United States which is
supposed to be the richest country in the world
inWestern Europe even in countries like Germany
which are considered to be rich you know
I lived in Japanfor 2 years, I know Japan very well
even in Japan life is getting worse and life is
gettingharder especially if you don't come from
a family of assets right so and some ofthese
countries have left wing governmentsright
you know the Democrats are in charge inthe U.S
um Spain and Germany both have left wing
governments and they are, even in thosecases,
massive increase in inequality duringCovid-19
massive decrease in living standards
so this is a problem that is bigger than the
Conservatives, Labour, Republicans, Democrats
this is about an understanding of the importance
of wealth inequality and a willingness to
make that change in spite of the fact that
most major political parties are funded by
billionaires right or very wealthy people so
I think what we need to do and the people
who support this channel need to do
we need to really build that bridge between
wealth inequality is bad from an ethical moral
perspective and wealth inequality is [__] your
[__] lives, your family, your economy in a way
that will get worse and worse and worse you know
I've used this analogy a number of times on the
channel that wealth inequality is cancer and I
know that is strong language and I don't use
accidentally the reason I use that language
is because wealth inequality is a thing which
if left to its own devices will grow and will
grow and will grow and will grow and it will
suck the wealth out of the middle class and
it will leave you with a very unequal economy
like like the economy in Brazil for example
that is what will happen here you know and
that is like a cancer if you don't do anything
about it it grows and it grows and it grows and
it grows and it sucks away the resources that you
need and eventually you will die you know this is
I'm not I don't understand everything about
the economy but I understand this one thing
if you allow this thing to grow unchecked it
will destroy everything. it will make the NHS
unaffordable - we will lose it, it'll make education
unaffordable - we will lose it, it will make housing
unaffordable and we will lose it and this is not a
UK specific problem you know we've been getting a
lot of messages from America lately and what do
they say every single one of them says the same
thing it's the same in the USA, *well Australia*
even like you know Australia was considered a
very wealthy country right every single one of
these messages it's the same thing it's the same
thing it's the same thing and you know at the
same time you know the government wants to say
us because the foreign is because of brexit this
is an international problem, International problem
and you're not going to fix it by voting these
people out right in the end you need to demand
a reduction in wealth inequality and you need to
say I'm not going to vote for anyone that doesn't
give us a reduction in wealth inequality you
know listen if you know okay I've been quite
critical of the conservatives on this channel if
they were to turn around and convince me really
convince me that they were going to reduce wealth
inequality I would vote for them and I would tell
the viewers to vote for them because that is what
matters what matters is that you kill this cancer
that is what matters you need to get rid of this
you need to do all this thing and I don't thinkthey
they will do that because the prime minister is
worth 770 million pounds and his father-in-law
is one of the richest men in the world...
moneycurrently is flowing from the government
to the rich leaving the government with big piles
ofdebt and the rich with big parts of money
there's one other thing they can do with that
massiveamount of income
they can buy your mom's house